# Defective-chessboard-using-Divide & Conquer 

METHODOLOGY: Given a n by n board where n is of form 2^k where k >= 1 (Basically, n is a power of 2 with minimum value as 2). The board has one missing square). Fill the board using trionimos. A trionimo is an L-shaped tile is a 2 × 2 block with one cell of size 1×1 missing. Solving the problem efficiently isn’t the goal of this post. Visualizing the board as the algorithm runs is much more interesting in my opinion, though. Lets discuss the algorithm first.

Steps to find the defective chessboard:

We have a chessboard of size n x n , where n =2k.Exactly on square is defective in the chessboard.The tiles are in L-shape i.e. 3 squares. Objective Cover all the chessboard with L-shape tiles, except the defective square.
It is possible to cover all non-defective squares. Let’s see how. As the size of the chessboard is n x n and n=2k. Therefore, Total no. of squares =2k x2k =22k. No. of non-defective squares = 22k-1.Now, for the value of K,22k-1 is divisible by 3.
Defective chessboards. 1x1 2 x2 2 x2 2 x2 2 x2 As the Size of these chessboards displayed here, 1x1 and 2x2 we don’t have to place any L-shape tile in the first and rest can be filled by just using 1 L-shaped tile. For 4x 4 chessboard.
For 8X8 DEFECTIVE CHESS BOARD. One of the cell is defective. We divide the chess board into equal sub half's.Creation of defective box. Trick to cover the chess board with tiles. Again creation of defective boxes as we divide the chess board division of problems into sub-problems. As we have finally divided the problem into 2x2 board we will put the tiles. The procedure will continue until all the sub board are covered with the tiles. The final chess board covered with all the titles and only left with the defectives which we created. Here we will cover the defectives which we have created as in the last, there should be only one defective left.Combining of all sub problems. • 8x8 4x4 4x4 4x4 4x4 • 2x2 2x2 2x2 4x4 2x2 • 1x1 2x2 4x4 8x8
ALGORITHIM: Step-1: Apply Divide and conquer and divide the cell as 4x4 cells Step-2: Place a L shaped tile at the centre such that it does not cover the n/2n/2 sub square that has a missing square. Now all four sub-squares of size n/2n/2 have a missing cell. Step-3: Now the 4x4 sub square is divided into further 2x2 squares (ie) solve the problem recursively until the base case is reached. To make every sub-problem a smaller version of our original problem add defects at the center, with one square in each of the four quadrants of our board, except for the one with our original defect would allow use to make four proper sub-problems, at the same time ensuring that we can solve the complete problem by adding a last trionimo to cover up the pseudo-defective squares we added. Step-4: Once the base case is reached then fill the L shaped tiles. After solving each of the four sub-problems and putting them together to form a complete board, we have 4 defects in our board: the original one will lie in one of the quadrants, while the other three were those we had intentionally added to solved the problem using DAC. All we have to do is add a final trionimo to cover up those defects. Every recursive algorithm must have a base case, to ensure that it terminates.So we have 2x2 block with a single defect as a base case. Step-5: Now the chess board except the missing tile part has been successfully been placed with L shape tiles.
